# ubisence-excercise-2

## Biggest Challenges

Getting the project set up was the hardest part for me. I have gotten used to building on just one Vue application, so setting up a new application was something I have not practiced as much. First, I had a hard time with the Vuetify css helpers. A lot of them were not working, and I could not figure out why. I spent some time proceeding with using just regular css because I didn't want the Vuetify css helpers to hold me back. Then, I realized I was missing the v-app tag which the helplers rely on, and I was able to delete some of my css in favor of the Vuetify helpers. Second, I struggled with the Vuex store set up. A lot of the documentation I was referencing was for Vue 3, so it took me a while to figure out the syntax I needed for the version of Vue and Vuex I had.

## Design Decisions

How I set up the Vuex store was the first big design decision I made. I would say that I made the structure too modular for the purpose of this application. However, I have found that Vuex stores are often the part of the application that grows the most as the application expands, and it is easier to lay a good foundation at the start rather than make that change and have to refactor later. My goal was to make my store easy to build on but still simple to read.

I did chose to leave my Vuex stores fairly empty. I did not store anything in the state and I did not have any getters. This is because there was only one component that needed access to the store, so it would be easier for me to only need to work in that file. It also makes it easier for someone else to read. The logic is in the same place it is used. Also, this is something that is easy to change later. If I were to write another component that uses the same data, I could easily move my logic to the state and getters of the Vuex store because getters work very similarly to computed properties. I would avoid duplicating any logic because that would make debugging harder for myself down the road.

Another decision I made was how to break down the components. I chose to keep App as the entry point with the top toolbar and a component for the workstations content. This component is very small right now, but it is a good structure in case we want to add multiple pages or tabs to navigate to. Next, I made the Workstations component. I seperated this one into a role I thought would logically make sense. It's responsibility is to request the data, handle loading and errors associated with the request, then combining the data into a format required by the subcomponents. Next, the AssemblyItem cards was a clear item that needed to be it's own component since it is repeated and looks almost identical in all places. Once I got into the AssemblyItem I tried avoiding making anything too modular. My team mates have made a point that it is sometimes hard to read Vue could when components are too sread apart. So, I always try my best to find a balance of what to split apart and what I should keep in one component. Once piece I did split out was because I noticed that the labels were a format that was repeated, so I made a subcomponent to avoid copying and pasting html code. The rest I chose to leave inside because I didn't think that the AssemblyItem was difficult to understand yet. The file is still small enough that it is easy to navigate. If the file grew, the first component I would chose to split out would be the elapsed time progress bar. That component had a lot of assocaited computed properties and it would make sense to encapsulate all that logic into its own file. However, I chose to wait to do that until I saw there would be a clear need for it.

Lastly, the reason I chose Vue 2, Vuetify, and Vuex to work with is because that is what I felt most comfortable in. This is what I spend most of my days working with so I decided to use that for a quick coding test like this. For a longer term project I am comfortable using tools I have not used before, if it makes sense at the time. For instance, as soon as Vuetify starts supporting Vue 3 it would be a good idea to get comfortable with the newer version of Vue.
